Theory
- A photoresistor (also known as a Photocell, or light-dependent resistor, LDR, or photoconductive cell) is a passive component that decreases resistance with respect to receiving
luminosity (light) on the component's sensitive surface. The resistance of a photoresistor
decreases with increase in incident l intensity; in other words, it exhibits photoconductivity.
Material
1-Arduino UNO R3
Arduino UNO is a low-cost, flexible, and easy-to-use programmable open-source microcontroller
board that can be integrated into a variety of electronic projects. ArduinoUNO features AVR
microcontroller Atmega328, 6 analogue input pins, and 14 digital I/O pins out of which 6 are used as PWM output.
2-Photoresistor / LDR
Photoresistors are also sometimes referred as LDR (Light Dependent Resistor), semiconductor
photoresistor, photoconductor, or photocell. Photoresistor changes itsresistance only when it is exposed to light. In other words, the flow of electric currentthrough the photoresistor increases
when the intensity of light increases.
3-Resistor (MINRES1K)
The main purpose of resistor is to reduce the current flow and to lower the voltage in any
particular portion of the circuit.
4-GROUND
Grounding something simply means connecting it to ground. And in electronics, ground is just a
name we give to a certain point in the circuit. For example, in a circuit with one battery (with a
positive and a negative terminal), we usually refer to the negative terminal as ground.
5-DC Power
Direct current (DC) is one-directional flow of electric charge. An electrochemical cell is a prime
example of DC power. Direct current may flow through a conductor such as a wire butcan also
flow through semiconductors and insulators.

Method
1. Install all softwares and required libraries from the prerequisite section
2. For importing of library, extract the downloaded .rar file from the given link > Copy both
files from it > paste it in the following directory
C:\Program Files (x86)\Labcenter Electronics\Proteus 8
Professional\LIBRARY
3. Open Proteus 8 and create a new project with all the default options selected
4. Once the schematic capture window is visible, click on the component mode on the left
pane
5. Click on P (Pick a device), search for the following components on the new window,
double click on them and click OK; to find them on your working window
UNO R3
LDR
MINRES1K
6. Now click on Generators in the left pane and select DC add it to simulating area
7. Similarly add GROUND from the left pane in terminals section
8. Connect the DC to first terminal of LDR
9. The second terminal of LDR to the Analog A0 port of the Arduino board and the first
terminal of the resistor to the same
10. Connect the second terminal of the resistor to the GROUND
11. To supply some power to the circuit, click on the DC power and change the value of the
voltage field to 5
12. From the left pane, select the virtual terminal from the virtual instruments mode and add
it to the simulating area
13. Connect the RXD pin of the terminal to the PD1/TXD port in Arduino and TXD pin to
PD0/RXD
14. The circuit should be similar to the below image
15. Now on Arduino IDE, type the following code
void setup()
{
Serial.begin(9600);
}
void loop()
{
Serial.println(analogRead(A0));
}
16. Now to generate the binary .HEX file, compile the code by clicking on Sketch from the
top menu bar and click on Verify / Compile
17. Next, Click on Export compiled binary
18. Copy the path of the generated .hex file from the below terminal
19. Back on Proteus 8, click on Arduino UNO R3 and in the program file field, paste the
copied hex file path OR browse to the specific directory and select the hex file and click
OK
20. Now run the simulation by clicking on play button in the bottom left of the window
21. A terminal window pops up that shows the current analog signal from the LDR
22. Change the intensity of the LDR to see changes in the output value of the terminal
window
